Security comms (#941)
elastic/docs-content: deploy-manage/security/self-tls.md

---
navigation_title: "Self-managed"
applies_to:
  deployment:
    self: ga
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/security-basic-setup-https.html
---

# Manage TLS certificates in self-managed deployments

This section provides guides for manually configuring and maintaining the TLS certificates in self-managed deployments. For an overview of the endpoints that need securing in {{es}} and {{kib}}, refer to [Communication channels](./secure-cluster-communications.md#communication-channels).

Use the following guides to manage TLS certificates:

* [](./set-up-basic-security.md) (**required for multi-node clusters**): Create and configure a Certificate Authority (CA) and certificates to encrypt inter-node traffic.

> * [](./set-up-basic-security-plus-https.md) (**optional but recommended**): Create and configure certificates to encrypt traffic on {{es}} and {{kib}} HTTP endpoints.

Author: nothing is automatic there, it's all manual and I'm trying to clarify that.

* [](./kibana-es-mutual-tls.md) (**optional**): Strengthen security by requiring {{kib}} to use an additional client certificate in the communication to {{es}}.
* [](./updating-certificates.md): Renew or replace existing TLS certificates before they expire.
* [](./supported-ssltls-versions-by-jdk-version.md): Customize the list of supported SSL/TLS versions in your cluster.
* [](./enabling-cipher-suites-for-stronger-encryption.md): Enable the use of additional cipher suites, so you can use different cipher suites for your TLS communications or communications with authentication providers.

> As an alternative to the manual configuration, consider the [automatic security configuration](./self-auto-setup.md) procedure, which includes automatic generation of TLS certificates for {{es}} HTTP and transport endpoints.

Author: I have updated the introduction and removed the `after` paragrah, but I don't see how come anything could imply here that anything was **automatic**, as it's all about manual configuration and it was specified twice.

Do you mean that the `required / optional` labels could cause confusion in relation with manual / automatic? Or did you mean something else?

> As an alternative to the manual configuration, consider the [automatic security configuration](./self-auto-setup.md) procedure, which includes automatic generation of TLS certificates for {{es}} HTTP and transport endpoints.

Author: All clear after our private conversation. Moving the first two bullets to the automatic / manual config section.

---
navigation_title: "Self-managed"
applies_to:
  deployment:
    self: ga
---

% scope: TLS encryption tasks and settings after the initial setup is completed.
# Manage TLS encryption in self-managed deployments

This section provides guidance on managing TLS certificates in self-managed deployments after the initial security setup. It covers tasks such as configuring mutual authentication, renewing certificates, and customizing supported TLS versions and cipher suites.

> ::::{note}
> If you're looking to secure a new or existing cluster by setting up TLS for the first time, refer to [](./self-setup.md), which covers both the [automatic](./self-auto-setup.md) and [manual](./self-setup.md#manual-configuration) configuration procedures.
> ::::
> 
> The topics in this section focus on post-setup tasks:

Reviewer: because this last sentence kind of refers to the note, I'd just make the note into a paragraph so they can flow/be read together

```suggestion
If you're looking to secure a new or existing cluster by setting up TLS for the first time, refer to [](./self-setup.md), which covers both the [automatic](./self-auto-setup.md) and [manual](./self-setup.md#manual-configuration) configuration procedures.

The topics in this section focus on post-setup tasks:
```

> * [](./kibana-es-mutual-tls.md) (**optional**): Strengthen security by requiring {{kib}} to use a client certificate when connecting to {{es}}.

Reviewer: are any of these required? would skip the `optional`

Author: Totally, good catch! it's a leftover.

* [](./updating-certificates.md): Renew or replace existing TLS certificates before they expire.
* [](./supported-ssltls-versions-by-jdk-version.md): Customize the list of supported SSL/TLS versions in your cluster.
* [](./enabling-cipher-suites-for-stronger-encryption.md): Enable additional cipher suites for TLS communications, including those used with authentication providers.

> For an overview of the endpoints that need securing in {{es}} and {{kib}}, refer to [Communication channels](./secure-cluster-communications.md#communication-channels).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For an overview of the endpoints that can be secured in {{es}} and {{kib}}, refer to [Communication channels](./secure-cluster-communications.md#communication-channels).
```
